docs-source/source/prerequisites.rst, before:

.. _prerequisites:

###############
Before starting
###############

Before diving into this project there are some skills and software that are
needed.


Required skills
===============

This project documentation assumes some basic skills using the command line and
the version-control tool, |git|_.
By "command line," we mean a Unix-like shell environment.
For this documentation, we assume you are using the Bash shell specifically.

For learning basic Bash skills, 
`Software Carpentry <https://software-carpentry.org/>`_
has a nice lesson:

*   http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/


For learning basic |git|_ skills, 
`Software Carpentry <https://software-carpentry.org/>`_
has a nice lesson for that as well:

*   http://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/

If you are a member of the |phyleticalab|_, you will be doing most of the work
for the project on Auburn University's Hopper cluster.
The guide for using the Hopper cluster is here:

*   https://wp.auburn.edu/hpc/?document=auburn-university-hopper-hpcc-users-guide


Required software
=================

Unix-like shell environment
---------------------------

As alluded to above in the required-skills section, you will need to have
access to a Unix-like shell environment (or Unix-like "command line").
If you are not sure what this is, please try out
`this Software Carpentry lesson <http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/>`_.

Folks in the |phyleticalab|_ will be using Bash on
Auburn University's Hopper cluster.

Git
---

This project requires |git|_.
If you want to contribute to the project, you should also have the
`Git Large File Storage <https://git-lfs.github.com/>`_
extension to Git.
`Git LFS <https://git-lfs.github.com/>`_
is not required to replicate our analyses, but |phyleticalab|_ members will be
using it to add large archives of simulation files to the project repository.

Python
------

Several Python scripts are used in this project, and we provide a shell script
that allows you to easily set up a Python virtual environment for these scripts
to work successfully.

C++ compiler
------------

This project requires |cmake|_ and a new-ish C++ compiler (one that supports
the C++11 standard). This are needed to compile |eco|_.


.. _setting-up:

Getting set up
==============

This section is intended specifically for |phyleticalab|_ members to get their
accounts on the Hopper cluster set up for working on this project.
If you are not in the lab, some of the instructions below might still be useful
for setting up your own system to work on this project.

Setting up Hopper account
-------------------------

.. include:: snippets/setting-up-hopper.rst


Setting up Github account
-------------------------

.. include:: snippets/setting-up-github.rst


Setting up Git on Hopper
------------------------

.. include:: snippets/installing-git.rst

Commit message:

Adding videos to docs.
Embedding YouTube videos on how to use Bash and Git into the
documentation.

docs-source/source/prerequisites.rst, after:

.. _prerequisites:

###############
Before starting
###############

Before diving into this project there are some skills and software that are
needed.


Required skills
===============

This project documentation assumes some basic skills using the command line and
the version-control tool, |git|_.
By "command line," we mean a Unix-like shell environment.
For this documentation, we assume you are using the Bash shell specifically.

For learning basic Bash skills, 
the lab has a video to help:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/38Ur1RWNq0U" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Also,
`Software Carpentry <https://software-carpentry.org/>`_
has a nice lesson:

*   http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/


For learning basic |git|_ skills, 
the lab has a series of videos:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/evZj6XbeQ-s" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_R3q2rv5wxs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    
Also,
`Software Carpentry <https://software-carpentry.org/>`_
has a nice lesson for that as well:

*   http://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/

If you are a member of the |phyleticalab|_, you will be doing most of the work
for the project on Auburn University's Hopper cluster.
The guide for using the Hopper cluster is here:

*   https://wp.auburn.edu/hpc/?document=auburn-university-hopper-hpcc-users-guide


Required software
=================

Unix-like shell environment
---------------------------

As alluded to above in the required-skills section, you will need to have
access to a Unix-like shell environment (or Unix-like "command line").
If you are not sure what this is, please try out
`this Software Carpentry lesson <http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/>`_.

Folks in the |phyleticalab|_ will be using Bash on
Auburn University's Hopper cluster.

Git
---

This project requires |git|_.
If you want to contribute to the project, you should also have the
`Git Large File Storage <https://git-lfs.github.com/>`_
extension to Git.
`Git LFS <https://git-lfs.github.com/>`_
is not required to replicate our analyses, but |phyleticalab|_ members will be
using it to add large archives of simulation files to the project repository.

Python
------

Several Python scripts are used in this project, and we provide a shell script
that allows you to easily set up a Python virtual environment for these scripts
to work successfully.

C++ compiler
------------

This project requires |cmake|_ and a new-ish C++ compiler (one that supports
the C++11 standard). This are needed to compile |eco|_.


.. _setting-up:

Getting set up
==============

This section is intended specifically for |phyleticalab|_ members to get their
accounts on the Hopper cluster set up for working on this project.
If you are not in the lab, some of the instructions below might still be useful
for setting up your own system to work on this project.

Setting up Hopper account
-------------------------

.. include:: snippets/setting-up-hopper.rst


Setting up Github account
-------------------------

.. include:: snippets/setting-up-github.rst


Setting up Git on Hopper
------------------------

.. include:: snippets/installing-git.rst
